  Home  	|	  My MSN  	|	  Hotmail  	|	  Shopping   	|	  Money  	|	  People & Groups  
	 	Sign out of .NET Passport sites	 	Web Search:	 	
go to MSN	Hotmail		
	   Home   		   Inbox   		   Compose   		   Calendar   		   Contacts   		 
	
	Options  |  Help   
team_mike@hotmail.com
	
Free Newsletters 
	Reply Reply 	|	Reply All Reply All	|	Forward Forward	|	Delete Delete	|	Junk Mail Junk	|	Put In Folder Put in Folder 	|	Print Print View	|	Contact Save Address	 
	
 
Inbox
Sent Messages
Drafts
Trash Can
Assassin
Logistik
M. Rec.
Res. Del
Res.
Report Junk E-Mail
Report and Block Sender
	
From : 	Adam Dymond <adamdymond1@hotmail.com>
Sent : 	22 March 2006 16:12:04
To : 	team_mike@hotmail.com
Subject : 	RE: Residue Make-Up/Prosthetics
	
	
Go to previous message	|	Go to next message	|	Delete	|	Inbox

Hi Mike,

Below is an enormous amount of waffle I made up as I typed.  I hope you can salvage something useful from it!  Good luck!

Basically, the makeup was as follows....

The Zombie

When discussing the make-up with Chris (the night before) the initial idea for the zombie was to perhaps break away somewhat from the Romero image we have all got used to, and go with something smooth and glistening - perhaps even amphibious - without hair and not toomuch deca or mutatilation.

However, so achive such an effect would have involved an even longer process with different materials which, although perfectly do-able, would not be wholly practical if large numbers were required.  Consequently, we ultimately found ourselves leaning towards the Romerop type in essence,  but to suggest some degree of radioactive damage (more deformity than gore) and suggest that this 'zombie' had been living in the lake and surrounding woods.

So....

To begin with, Aaron was given a quick once-over with white foundation.  This is basically to provide a 'blank canvas' in which we could paint in our own features rather than accentuate his existing facial features (as you would with a more normal make-up).  A layer of latex and tissue paper was then applied to Aaron's face, neck, and shoulders with the edge kept irregular so as to not reveal a dividing line.  This effectively provided us with an extra layer of 'skin' which we could let 'hang' or tear accordingly.  As this is a white coloured layer, it blends perfactly with the foundation and can be an interesting effect on it's own.

Once the basic deformity was in place, i.e. wrinkles in the neck, blisters to the face, and 'frown lines',  we began the process of adding colour.  A standard camoflage paint set provided us with the appropriate colours to suggest water and woodland habitation.  Black blended with the white foundation and gave us a post-mortem type of grey to the skin which seemed to suggest possible fallout to me.  Greens and brown were added to bot provide the obvious dirt that would stain him if he were living wild, but also to provide high-lights and low lights.  Aaron has a slim and slightly athletic build, so we traced the lines to his torso with darker make-up to exagerate his muscle definition.  This implied that the zombie has gained a degree of animal-like fitness which was evident in his rapid movements and leaping in the actual scene.

Red was applied around the eyes, this always looks painful, and also puts a disturbing 'organic' quality to the hidious features.  Sometimes, if there is thick make-up it is easy to forget there is a living person behind the distortion, so a little red around the eyes reminds us that this is actuall an injured human being.  Likewise, traces were added to small 'skin wounds' we added around the torso.

We did not have time to lose Aaron's hair with a skullcap etc, so we went for nasty and slimy instead.  This involved a mixture of hair gel and golden-syrup generously poured into the hair.  The syrop then trickled down over his shoulders slightly creating a nice glistening effect which implied he'd been wallowing in 'residue' of some kind...

Finally, the obligatory blood was splattered around his mouth and down his front deliberately leaving a question-mark over whether this is his blood or his victims.  It also complemented the blistering nicely.


The Victims

This was more straight-forward in principle.  Basically, we were making dead people, who had been nibbled at.

The complications come when we start to consider the details:  How did they die?  Have they been eaten?  If so, how exactly have they been nibbled?

If you look at animals eating other animals they tend to rip away a fleshy bit and then attack that area until they get to a bone.  For humans this is less easy as they do not have purpose built massive incisers like a tiger, for example.  So I came to the conclusion that - with perserverance - a person could probably rip away someone's arm and eat it like a drum stick, and would also be able to expose the rib cage eventually - though this would not be very meaty.

Consequently a large amount of meaty (non-human) ribs were consumed the night before shooting and kept in a bag, along with a fairly good sized joint.  Hearty meals were had by all, and the boney scraps presevered.  The following day the victims were given a quick once over with foundation and, like Aaron, had an extra layer of 'skin added to what would become the 'injury'.

We then began the long process of grafting the bones onto the latex skin.  To create the effect of the ribcage being exposed, the animal ribs were set in the gaps between the actor's own ribs which gave us a neat and accurate arrangement.  More 3D detail was painted on with latex as well as adding another layer of 'skin' over the entire arrangement which could then be slashed and torn accordingly to suggest the last remains of flesh.

Finally, the makeup was painted with various shades of red, and the standard theatrical blood was applied.  Once the actor was positioned on set, the final touches of spilt blood and 'human residue' was applied.  For extra gore, we concealed the actor's arm and replaced it with the (now disgustingly decorated) joint of meat from the previous evening.

Bon appetite!


 	 	From: "Mike Ritchie" <team_mike@hotmail.com>
To: adamdymond1@hotmail.com
Subject: Residue Make-Up/Prosthetics
Date: Tue, 21 Mar 2006 10:41:05 +0000

Hi Adam,

I'm Mike, one of the producers for Residue, we met briefly at the Holgate Hall shoot at the end of last year. I'm also putting together the new design for the website and I was wondering if you'd be able to help me out.

I'm working on a whole section just for the make-up/prosthetics and I want to make it pretty informative and detailed. However I'm not very experienced in such things and I was wondering if you'd be able to write for me a couple of paragraphs explaining what you did for the make-up on that Holgate Hall shoot (pics enclosed below)

http://www-users.york.ac.uk/~bmh107/residue/gifs/behindthescenes_ptgjoffedead.jpg
http://www-users.york.ac.uk/~bmh107/residue/gifs/behindthescenes_ptgaaronlatex.jpg

If you've got time to do something, that would be awesome. Just some rough notes would be useful. The make-up seemed pretty complex and I'm sure it would be useful and interesting to make a big feature of it on the website.

Kind regards,
MIKE

--------------------------------------------
MIKE RITCHIE
Mob: 07963 547 439
Email: team_mike@hotmail.com
Website: www.TeamMike.co.uk




Reply	|	Reply All	|	Forward		Go to previous message	|	Go to next message	|	Delete	|	Inbox
		
   
  Home  	|	  My MSN  	|	  Hotmail  	|	  Search   	|	  Shopping   	|	  Money  	|	  People & Groups  
	Feedback  |  Help   
 © 2006 Microsoft TERMS OF USE  TRUSTe Approved Privacy Statement  Anti-Spam Policy
